[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: CSP, probably for
several of you, a bit brain bending.
Still brain bending for me, and I've
been at this for awhile, so that's okay.
Don't run away from those things
that twist your brain a bit.
My instinct is when I see something
that is twisting my brain, and
I'm not really sure I understand it,
that's the thing I run towards
because I feel like there's
probably something I'm missing and
it's probably really, really powerful and
really, really useful.
So I encourage you to embrace that.
Rather than fully
>> Kyle Simpson: Fully
develop the solution for you from scratch,
I'm going to switch over to
the fixed version and just walk you
through the different pieces and
why they're there,
partly that's just not to overwhelm so
much and partly to save time, so
we can get on to our last exercise.
All right, so what I'm first doing here,
this should look familiar
from the reactive solution.
I'm setting up a channel for
each of the clicks and messages.
So I'm going to use channels for
my communication rather than observables.
That should make pretty
straightforward sense and
then I have my runner which is
going to run my two go routines.
I'm gonna have one for
sampling the click events and one for
logging out those click messages.
So those are my to go
routines that are gonna run.
Now I'm also going to listen
to the clicks from the button.
So lets look at what
listen to clicks is doing.
What I'm doing is I've got
a variable called queued click,
it's kind of like what latest
was in the previous one.
But queued click is going to keep
the return value from putAsync.
Remember I said putAsync would return
as a promise that would let us know
whenever the put had been
accepted by the channel.
So I'm gonna take advantage of that and
say, I don't want to queue any more clicks
until I know that the previous
one has already been accepted.
So it's a way of sort of simulating in a
non go routine, that back pressure thing.
So I'm gonna store it off into
a variable only if it hasn't been
stored off in a variable, and I'm going
to listen to the completion of that and
that's when I'm going to clear it out.
So only one click event is going
to be able to go into the channel,
be pending and waiting at a time
rather than them stacking up.
That's how I'm gonna prevent that because
there really isn't a direct way or
even a proper way of
draining out a channel.
So you're not gonna wannna
go down that direction.
So here rather than doing that,
I'm going to
simulate the back pressure by just
knowing that it hasn't been received yet.
If I were inside of a generator here,
I wouldn't need to be storing off and
listening to a promise,
I would just yield on the put.
But I'm not inside of a generator
because this function's being called by
a click handler every time.
So that's why I have to go the extra route
of dealing with something as a promise.
This is one of the reasons
why I said earlier,
that these higher level patterns even
though they're much more powerful and
they do offer some really nice affordances
that the lower level patterns don't,
they're not fully replacing
the lower level patterns.
We still need to understand what a promise
is because there's gonna be times when
a promise is gonna be useful
to accomplish something.
So let's take a look at sample clicks.
I'm gonna have a while true loop
spinning and I'm gonna take from a 1,000
millisecond timeout channel And
I'm going to take from the clicks.
So remember I'm only allowing
one click to go down.
So I'm gonna sit here and wait until
there is a click ready for me and
then I'm going to put a message out.
And here's my log click.
I'm going to sit here waiting for somebody
to put something on to the messages
channel and I'm going to
append what I get to the list.
>> Kyle Simpson: Not terribly dissimilar
from our reactive solution in terms of how
we split it up.
So hopefully that made at
least a little bit of sense.
There is one difference that
I do wanna point out just in
the interest of full transparency here.
When we're sampling,
we're throwing away all old events and
here, we are throwing away events by just
not even putting them into the queue.
So we're actually storing the first
event that happened, whereas
in the reactive observables thing, we were
keeping only the last event to happen.
So if you had a thousand events
a thousand button clicks between now and
the last time the timer fired.
We only use the last event and
here we're using the first event and
throwing away subsequent.
So there is a slight
difference there conceptually.
As with the reactive,
there are 100 different ways that you
could've modelled this differently.
Some of those may have ended up
producing different behaviors there, but
I was going for the simplest way
to illustrate the same kinds of
concepts here.
So, questions about csp.
>> Kyle Simpson: Maybe we're just in
that my brain is completely melted.
I couldn't possibly formulate
a full English sentence anyway.
I get there too, its no problem.
>> Speaker 2: I'm just trying to do
something simple and it's not not working.
So we could back up and say why can't I
just print something on the screen, but
that seems to be like a waste
of everybody else's time.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay well,
over a break or at the end or something,
let's talk through it.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
is it always used with generators or
almost always used with generators?
>> Kyle Simpson: Generators are the way
to model a Go routine most directly
in JavaScript.
If you didn't use a generator,
you'd be doing a lot of extra work to
make your own state machine stuff.
And you wouldn't get the benefit of that
synchronous semantic the way you want.
>> Speaker 3: So
the power comes from these channels
plus the generator together?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, yeah, exactly.
If you already learned the power of
generators, which is the synchronous
sequential-looking async, then you layer
on the semantic that channels give us,
that blocking, back pressure semantic.
That's what CSP is giving us.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
before we go on to our last exercise,
I wanted to just show you something.
This is an in-process work of mine.
I started about a year ago
thinking about this problem.
When I first started getting into CSP, it
was one of the first things that occurred
to me and then I realized very quickly
when I was implementing my own CSP stuff,
how hard it would be to do this
thing that I had dreamed of doing.
But I thought in the back of my head,
one of these days,
I'll get around to trying my hand at it.
And then about three months ago,
I got invited to speak at a conference and
I was like, you know, I'm gonna propose
that I talk to them about this moonshot
that I'm not even sure is possible.
So I gave myself a deadline by
which I would have to do that and
that deadline is a week from now.
So what I'm gonna show you,
it's the first time I'm showing this,
what I'm gonna show you is
a proof of concept for a solution
to this idea that I came up with and
it's directly related to the CSP stuff.
What's happening here in our CSP is
that we're modelling these generators,
I mean we're modelling these
processes as generators
within the same JavaScript program, which
is great because we get the independence,
the semantics of blocking,
and all of that stuff.
But from a performance perspective,
these generators are not
running on separate threads.
So we're not really getting the full
power of something like Go or
Clojurescript the way they model stuff.
We're not getting that because we're not
actually using multiple threads here,
multiple processes, we're using one
single blocking JavaScript event.
So about a year ago,
I was wondering to myself,
I wonder what it would be like if I could
create a channel for usage with CSP,
where the channel itself was implemented
as a bridge to a remote thread.
What if I could have the same Go routine,
like the one that's on line 27 to 35.
What if I can have that in the browser and
then the ones from line 38 to 43,
would if it could be on the server?
Two different go routines that could
communicate with each other exactly
the same way using
the channel semantic and
have the channel figure out how
to bridge across a remote wire.
And I thought at first that sounds
not that hard and then as I got into
the implementation of it, I was like
holy crap, that's really hard to do
because there's a whole lot under the
covers just to make these channels work.
This is not an easy implementation.
So I put it off for months and
months and months and
then I said three months ago I said,
I'm going to get around to trying.
And at that point, I was about 30%
sure that it was even possible.
I was like well, why not?
Let's propose a conference talk and
see whether I can make it happen.
If not,
I'll fall back on one of my other talks.
So I've been working on it for
the last several months in all
of my very limited free time.
And about a week ago,
I got the first message to cross
the thread barrier across the process
barrier, not between browser and server,
but now that I've proven that I can do it
here, I can easily do it over the wire.
When I started which I thought would be
a lot easier to develop is what if I could
do this between the browser and
a Web Worker, have a remote web worker
that I could spin up a Go routine in?
And if I could do it in one of them,
then I could spin up 10,000 Web Workers
with 10,000 independent Go routines and
communicate with all of
them through channels.
So my proof of concept was good.
I could spin up a Web Worker
with a Go routine and
spin up the browser with a Go routine and
have them do blocking communication.
And what I decided to illustrate that with
is, I would have the Web Worker do some
blocking activity like run a fore
loop all the way up to like 1
trillion which would take several seconds,
which would block the Web Worker and
if that code was running in a browser,
it would block up the browser page.
So could I let that happen in a Web Worker
while my web page continued to be
interacting, and then as soon as
the Web Worker was ready to take and
send a message,
then the message would go through.
So that was my proof of concept and
this is networking.
So right now, the Web Worker is running
a loop up to 1 trillion and then there,
whatever that number is and
then it sent me that message along.
And while it was running
in the background,
my browser remains
completely interactible.
So that doesn't look impressive at all,
but holy crap,
was that a lot of work to get!
I mean I've spent months trying to
figure out how to get this to work and
developing the protocols for the back and
forth messaging, because with CSP,
you have to know that the message
got to the other side.
So there has to be an ACK involved,
where you let it know and you don't know,
when you're sending a message out,
you don't know if somebody else is sending
a message in, and what's the sequencing.
It was a lot more work than I thought,
but I finally got a proof of concept for
remote CSP channels with JavaScript.
So now with that protocol in place,
all you have to do is write a very simple
wrapper for Web Workers, which I now have,
write another one for cross frame
communications, write another one for
web socket communication to a server,
basically any remote process
that you can dream up.
You can now use a channel to send
CSP messages back and forth so.
That's where I'm at with CSP, I'm trying
to dream up doing really powerful stuff
like even having truly remote, truly
independent, truly threaded processes,
even on Node where Go is
the one that kind of like wins
in terms of being able to spin out
10,000 lightweight threads or whatever.
It's not gonna be hard at all to spin
up an adapter for the child process and
Node, so I'll be able to spin
up 10,000 child process threads,
very lightweight and have each one of
them with their own Go routine and
split up large amounts of work
into a very highly current system.